Crewe Cemetery Lodge - Change of Use Alterations  Schedule
  
Section 3 : Services  
  
Item Description £       p
  
 GENERAL 
  
A All electrical works to be undertaken by an NICEIC Electrical Contractor to the 17th Edition.   
  
B Include for all associated builders workers in connection with electrical works and for opening up, and making good all disturbed ceiling, wall and floor finishes as required including plaster work and joinery, to match existing. 
  
C All redundant equipment shall be removed from site. Existing redundant services terminated. 
  
D Were new walls etc; are formed all new wiring and pipework should be concealed. Were new surface mounted wiring is required it shall be contained in metal conduit complete with all junctions, bends fixing brackets etc. 
  
E Twin switched sockets to be 13A with outboard rockers. 
  
F Provide earthing and bonding to new installations. 
  
G Allow for blanking off any outlets that become redundant as a result of the works. 
  
H Unless stated otherwise lights to be wired to ceiling mounted PIR presence detectors located in each room.  The number of presence detectors is dependant on that which is required to detect movement from each direction of travel.  Where no movement detected the lights are to turn off after 10 - 15 minutes. 
  
J New hot and cold water distribution pipework to be 22mm or 15mm copper with copper soldered joints.  Insulate pipe runs in floor void and exposed positions.  Include for in-line isolation valves prior to connection to each appliance to allow for servicing etc.  All pipe runs to be located in ceiling or floor voids or existing ducts, wherever possible and dropped to appliances locally. 
  
K The domestic hot and cold water service system shall be sterilised in accordance with the requirements of BS 6700 by a nationally recognised specialist water treatment company. 
  
L A bacteriological examination certificate shall be issued giving test results and comments relating to the quality of the water. 
  
M Allow for testing and commissioning upon completion and provision of certificates prior to handover. 
  
N Provide draft manual at Practical Completion and completed versions within one month of completion. 
  
P Allow for attendance at a Post Contract induction meeting to instruct Client and maintenance staff on the operation and maintenance of the installed services. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 Carried Forward 0.0
  
David Trowler Associates  Page 3/1
(1806 - September 2014)  
 Brought Forward 0.0
  
 ELECTRICAL SERVICES 
  
 Strip Out 
  
A Strip out lighting to the following rooms: 
  
 Kitchen 
 Living Room 
 Bedroom 
 Store 
 Bathroom 
 First Floor Hall. 
  
B Isolate and remove existing electric heater in Hall and dispose from site. 
  
C Remove obsolete extract and sink controls located on First Floor Hallway and dispose. 
  
D Remove extract fan and controls in Toilet and dispose. 
  
E Remove electric shower and controls in Bathroom an dispose. 
  
F Retain all existing power outlet etc as indicated on drawings. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 Carried Forward 0.0
  
David Trowler Associates  Page 3/2
(1806 - September 2014)  
 Brought Forward 0.0
  
 LIGHTING 
  
 Include for cutting and making good chases, sundry holes.  All concealed work.  All switches to be MK Aspect.

 
  
 Kitchen 
  
A Supply and install 1 no. Dextra Graduate I surface luminaries (2 x 28W) complete with lamps and prismatic controller. Supply and connect to new PIR presence detector and override light switch as indicated. 
  
B Fitting to have  3 hour non-maintained emergency pack conversion,  complete with test switches.  
  
 Office 
  
C Install 2 no. light fittings comprising Crompton Synthesis suspended luminaire with 65-1000cd/m2 louvres.  Include for new wiring conduit etc. as required. Supply and connect to new  PIR presence detector and override light switch with switch dimming facility as indicated. 1 no. fittings to be 3 hour non-maintained emergency pack conversion, complete with test switches.  
  
 Meeting Room 
  
D Install 2 no. light fittings comprising Crompton Synthesis suspended luminaire with 65-1000cd/m2 louvres.  Include for new wiring conduit etc. as required. Supply and connect to new PIR presence detector and override light switch with switch dimming facility as indicated. 1 no. fittings to be 3 hour non-maintained emergency pack conversion, complete with test switches.  
  
 Store 
  
E Provide and install Cooper Bijou IP54 range (BJSBSIL) 275mm diameter low profile compact fluorescent for ceiling mounting. IP54 rated with injection moulded polycarbonate opal diffuser  
  
 Toilet 1 
  
F Provide and install Cooper Bijou IP54 range (BJSBSIL) 275mm diameter low profile compact fluorescent for ceiling mounting. IP54 rated with injection moulded polycarbonate opal diffuser  
  
 Supply and connect to new PIR presence detector. 
  
 Toilet 2 
  
G Provide and install Cooper Bijou IP54 range (BJSBSIL) 275mm diameter low profile compact fluorescent for ceiling mounting. IP54 rated with injection moulded polycarbonate opal diffuser  
  
 Supply and connect to new PIR presence detector. 
  
  
  
  
  
 Carried Forward 0.0
  
David Trowler Associates  Page 3/3
(1806 - September 2014)  
 Brought Forward 0.0
  
 Ground / First Floor Hall 
  
A Provide and install 2 no. new Dextra AMED Elite ceiling mounted / wall mounted luminaires with polycarbonate body and diffuser. Supply and connect to new PIR presence detector and override two way light switch. Fittings to be 3 hour non-maintained emergency pack conversion, complete with test switches.  
  
B Provide and install new Dextra EXI 8W T5 self-contained exit sign luminiare ceiling mounted self contained emergency lamps completed with illuminated running man and directional down arrow.  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 Carried Forward 0.0
  
David Trowler Associates  Page 3/4
(1806 - September 2014)  
 Brought Forward 0.0
 SMALL POWER 
  
 Kitchen 
  
A Supply and fit 3 no. fused switched spurs for extract fan, water heater and electric heater as shown on drawings and connect to items as described elsewhere. 
  
B Provide 1 no. twin switched outlets as indicated. 
  
 Office 
  
C Provide 3 compartment dado trunking to two sides of room complete with 3 no. twin switched outlets.  
  
D Supply and fit 2 no. fused switched spurs for electric heaters as shown on drawings and connect to items as described elsewhere. 
  
 Meeting Room 
  
E Provide 2 no. twin switched outlets as indicated. 
  
F Supply and fit 2 no. fused switched spurs for electric heaters as shown on drawings and connect to items as described elsewhere. 
  
 Store 
  
G Provide 1 no. twin switched outlet at high level above Door D4 for Server installation. 
  
 WC1 & WC2 
  
H Supply and fit 2 no. fused switched spurs for wall mounted extract fan as shown on drawings and connect to fans described elsewhere. 
  
J Supply and fit 4 no. fused switched spurs for electric heaters and water heaters as shown on drawings and connect to items as described elsewhere. 
  
 IT SERVER/ DATA INSTALLATION 
  
K IT Server / Data installation works to be undertaken and commisioned by CoSocius. Allow for liaising with contractor to ensure all works are programmed in advance and ensure no delays are caused due to the works. 
  
L Supply and install 4 core fibre uplink cable to Lodge as indicated. Cable to be taken from Cemetery Office opposite and routed above ground. 
  
M Supply and install 3 no. double data outlets in Meeting Room. 
  
N Provide 3 no. double data outlets in 3 compartment dado trunking. 
  
P Configuration and installation of Network Switch and fibre SFP's. 
  
Q Installation of Comms Cabinet in Cemetery Office. 
  
 Carried Forward 0.0
  
David Trowler Associates  Page 3/5
(1806 - September 2014)  
 Brought Forward 0.0
  
 ELECTRIC HEATERS 
  
A Provide and install Ecolec ECO wall mounted radiant panel heater to the following rooms and sizes: 
  
 Kitchen - 1 no. Ecolec ECO 1500D/RP/PC/RX - 1200 Watt Output. 
 Office -  2 no.  Ecolec ECO 1500D/RP/PC/RX - 1200 Watt Output each. 
 Meeting Room -  1 no. Ecolec ECO 1500D/RP/PC/RX - 1200 Watt Output. 
 Meeting Room -  1 no. Ecolec ECO 1000D/RP/PC/RX - 800 Watt Output. 
 WC1 - 1 no. Ecolec ECO 500D/RP/PC/RX - 400 Watt Output. 
 WC2 - 1 no. Ecolec ECO 500D/RP/PC/RX - 400 Watt Output. 
 First Floor Hallway - 1 no. Ecolec ECO 1000D/RP/PC/RX - 800 Watt Output. 
  
B Colour: Powder Coated White. Include for supply and installing Wireless Controller (transmitter). 
  
C Each unit to be set to desired internal temperature as indicated by Contract Administrator such that the heater will cycle on / off to maintain room temperature. Units to incorporate frost protection. 
  
D Connect each heater to fused spurs as described elsewhere. 
  
 FIRE ALARM INSTALLATION 
  
E Supply and install integrated fire alarm system, as indicated on drawings, include for addressable panel, call points, detectors and sounders. System to be L1 standard and open protocol. 
  
F Addressable panel to be located in Hallway as shown on drawing 1806/03. 
  
G Cabling to be FP200 Gold with red LSF oversheath.  Horizontal cable runs to be within floor/ roof voids where possible.  Vertical runs to be concealed within walls. Include for making good walls were disturbed. 
  
H Arrange for manufacturer to commission and test the system and provide certificates to Contract Administrator. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 Carried Forward 0.0
  
David Trowler Associates  Page 3/6
(1806 - September 2014)  
 Brought Forward 0.0
  
 MECHANICAL SERVICES 
  
A Include for all associated builders works in connection with mechanical works including for opening up, and making good all disturbed surfaces as required including plasterwork and joinery, to match existing. 
  
B Include for all cutting, chasing as required,  protection to cables and making good where disturbed. 
  
 Preparation 
  
C Isolate feeds and remove existing storage cylinder in Bathroom and dispose from site. 
  
 HOT AND COLD WATER 
  
D Isolate hot and cold feeds to redundant sanitary fittings. 
  
E Supply and install Zip Inline CEX 9.6kW water heater.  Include also for all associated pipework. Install in accordance with manufacturers instructions. Provide new hot water feeds to Sink and dishwasher. Water heater to be installed in base unit as indicated. Connect to fused spur. Provide ball-o-fix isolation valve prior to each connection. 
  
F Supply and install 2 no. Zip Inline ES3 water heaters.  Include also for all associated pipework. Install in accordance with manufacturers instructions. Provide new hot water feeds to wash hand basins. Water heater to be installed below basins. Connect to fused spur. Provide ball-o-fix isolation valve prior to each connection. 
  
G Provide new cold water feeds to sink, wash basins and W.C's. Provide ball-o-fix isolation valve prior to each connection. 
  
 Completion 
  
H The domestic hot and cold water service system shall be sterilised in accordance with the requirements of BS 6700 by a nationally recognised specialist water treatment company. 
  
J A bacteriological examination certificate shall be issued giving test results and comments relating to the quality of the water. 
  
 VENTILATION 
  
K Form openings in external walls as required, location to be agreed. 
  
L WC1 & WC2 - Supply and fit 2 no. Vent Axia Silhouette 100TM fans complete with integral PIR sensor and transformer in position as indicated.  Fan to be set with 15 minute overrun and wired to lighting. Connect to fused spur as described elsewhere. 
  
M Kitchen - Supply and fit Vent Axia LoWatt TX12WL wall mounted extractor fan complete with wireless controller and air quality sensor.  Fan to be set with 15 minute overrun. Supply and fit grille externally. 
  
N Include for condensation trap and back draught shutters. 
  
 To Collection 0.0
  
David Trowler Associates  Page 3/7
(1806 - September 2014)  
