Crewe Cemetery Lodge - Change of Use Alterations  Schedule
  
Section 2 : Internal Works  
  
Item Description £       p
  
 PREPARATION 
  
 STRIP OUT 
  
 Kitchen 
  
A Carefully remove the following Kitchen Units and set aside for refitting upon completion of the works: 
  
 2 no. 1000mm Base units complete with plinth. 
 1 no. 3000mm long worktop. 
 1 no. stainless steel sink and taps. 
 1 no. 600 base unit complete with worktop and plinth. 
 1 no. cooker 
 1 no. 2000mm long worktop complete with support leg. 
  
B Retain existing drainage for re-use. 
  
C Remove vinyl tiled flooring and dispose. 
  
D Remove timber skirtings to full perimeter of room including beading and dispose. 
  
E Hack off tiled splashbacks and cills and dispose. 
  
F Remove existing floorboards to full extent of room and retain for re-use. Include for removing any existing insulation found between floor joists and dispose. 
  
G Strip out existing internal door D1 and dispose. 
  
 Living Room 
  
H Furniture within room will be removed by client prior to works starting. 
  
J Remove existing carpet including underlay and threshold trim and dispose. 
  
K Remove timber skirtings to full perimeter of room and dispose. 
  
L Remove existing floorboards to full extent of room and retain for re-use. Include for removing any existing insulation found between floor joists and dispose. 
  
M Strip out existing internal door D2 and dispose. 
  
N Prepare door D2 and frame for rehanging in opposite swing direction. Include for removing, chiseling out hinge plates and latch strike plate to suit new swing. Make good areas disturbed with timber packing pieces. 
  
P Remove curtains and curtain pole and dispose from site. 
  
Q Carefully remove ceiling plaster, boarding / laths and nails from below the ceiling joists to area of damaged plaster and dispose. 
 Approx Areas:   
 1000mm x1000mm - Above W8 
 3600mm x 1000mm - Above W9 
  
 Carried Forward 0.0
  
David Trowler Associates  Page 2/1
(1806 - September 2014)  
 Brought Forward 0.0
 Bedroom 
  
A Furniture within room will be removed by client prior to works starting. 
  
B Remove floor coverings and skirtings to full extent of area. 
  
C Remove existing floorboards to full extent of room and retain for re-use. Include for removing any existing insulation found between floor joists and dispose. 
  
D Strip out existing internal door D3 and dispose. 
  
E Prepare door D3 and frame for rehanging in opposite swing direction. Include for removing, chiseling out hinge plates and latch strike plate to suit new swing. Make good areas disturbed with timber packing pieces. 
  
F Remove curtains and curtain pole and dispose from site. 
  
G Carefully remove ceiling plaster, boarding / laths and nails from below the ceiling joists to area of damaged plaster and dispose. 
 Approx Areas:  2800mm x 800mm - Above W7 
  
 Store 
  
H Remove floor coverings and skirtings to full extent of area. 
  
J Remove existing floorboards to full extent of room and retain for re-use. Include for removing any existing insulation found between floor joists and dispose. 
  
K Strip out existing internal door D4 and dispose. 
  
L Remove curtains and curtain pole and dispose from site. 
  
M Remove existing high level cupboard, dispose and make good surfaces disturbed. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 Carried Forward 0.0
  
David Trowler Associates  Page 2/2
(1806 - September 2014)  
 Brought Forward 0.0
  
 Bathroom 
  
A Remove floor coverings and skirtings to full extent of area. 
  
B Remove tiles to walls throughout. 
  
C Remove existing sanitaryware and drainage pipework to sink , w.c and bath including timber panel framework. Remove towel ring, toilet roll holder and shower fittings complete.  Temporary blank off water supplies in the interim of new installations. Include for infilling hole in external wall were WC pipework removed. 
  
D Remove the cylinder and expansion tank within the storage cupboard and roof space above and dispose.  Temporarily blank off supplies. 
  
E Remove stud partition wall forming storage / cylinder cupboard include for removing shelves. 
  
F Remove all wall covering from walls with care and advise Contract Administrator in order for inspection and evaluation of plaster repairs (described elsewhere). 
  
G Remove existing floorboards to full extent of room and retain for re-use. Include for removing any existing insulation found between floor joists and dispose. 
  
H Strip out existing internal door D5 and dispose. 
  
J Remove blinds and dispose from site. 
  
 Hall 
  
K Remove floor coverings and skirtings to area indicated on drawing 1826/02 & 04. 
  
L Remove existing floorboards to area indicated on drawing 1826/04 and retain for re-use. Include for removing any existing insulation found between floor joists and dispose. 
  
M Remove curtains and curtain pole and dispose from site. 
  
N Carefully remove existing handrail as indicated. Include for retaining all brackets and fixings were possible for re-use. 
  
P Remove wall covering to Staircase compartment wall and remove plaster to expose partition construction. Report to Contract Administrator construction of partition. E.g Layers of plasterboard etc installed and insulation within void etc. Include for the removal of full extent of plaster to compartment wall to staircase. 
  
Q Remove door DE2 and dispose. Retain existing frame. 
  
 Roofspace 
  
R Removing existing decking boards within roofspace to allow the installation of roof insulation and dispose. 
  
S Remove all loose laid insulation carefully between ceiling joists and associated debris, maintaining ceiling in tact.  Protect as works proceed with boards 
  
 Carried Forward 0.0
  
David Trowler Associates  Page 2/3
(1806 - September 2014)  
 Brought Forward 0.0
  
 GROUND FLOOR - RAISE LEVELS TO FLOOR 
  
A Remove door DE1 and set aside for re-use. Cut door to reduce height to suit new raised floor level. Chase out floor and install new thresholld water bar to full width of door DE1. Install new hardwood 38mm x 50mm hardwood batten over weather bar. 
  
B Remove all dust and debris and clean base thoroughly to area of works. Supply and lay 2 no layers of 18mm plywood sheets to existing floor to Entrance Lobby and Ground Floor staircase lobby as per details on 1806/04. Ensure 190mm going is maintained to stairs. Allow for cutting sheets around door frames etc. 
  
C Install hardwood timber weather bar to Door DE1. 
  
 FLOOR CONSTRUCTION - FIRE & ACOUSTIC UPGRADE 
  
 Supply and install the following Floor upgrade construction to achieve 60 minutes fire resistance between the Ground Floor and First Floor as indicated on drawing 1806/04. All works to be undertaken from first floor, no access required to Ground Floor to install system. 
  
 The quality of the installation of the system on site will have a impact on the acoustic levels achieved. Contractor to contact manufactuer to obtain installation best practice and standard details prior to undertaking works. 
  
D Supply and install Hush-System LP-HD1030. System comprises of: 
  
 Hush (UK) Limited 
 44 Canal Street, South Sefton, Merseyside, L20 8QU 
 Tel No. 0151 933 2026 
  
E Ensure dust and debris is removed between exposed joists and Supply and Install Hush-Mesh Firewire across back of existing ground floor ceiling between joists and up sides of all joists. 
  
F Install Hush-Slab 100 Sound absorber insulation slab between exposed joists. 
  
G Refit existing floorboards to top of joists. 
  
H Overlay with floorboards with Gyproc 19mm plasterboard plank. Plasterboard sheets 600mm wide x 2400mm long. 
  
J Overlay plasterboard planks with Hush-Panel 28 floating floor panels. System raises existing floor level by 38mm. Panels to be tongued and grooved P5 moisture resistant chipboard panels.  Lay in a conventional broken bond pattern. All joints to be glued and installed in accordance with manufacturers instructions. Overlay areas to receive vinyl flooiring finish with 4mm flooring grade plywood. Plywood to be laid half bonded over the chipboard joints stapled or nailed. Ensure plywood is grade 'good one side' specification CSA 0121 sanded suitable for installation of vinyl safety flooring. 
  
K Allow for leaving expansion joints to perimeter of all rooms and install Hush-Seal 20 perimeter seal prior to fixings skirtings as described elsewhere.  
  
L Allow the provisional sum of £750.00 (Seven Hundred and Fifty Pounds) for replacement floorboards. 
  
 Carried Forward 0.0
  
David Trowler Associates  Page 2/4
(1806 - September 2014)  
 Brought Forward 0.0
  
 COMPARTMENT WALL - FIRE PROTECTION UPGRADE 
  
A Infill exposed compartment stud wall with 50mm thick Isowool APR 1200 insulation. 
  
B Plate First Floor flat side of compartment wall using 2 no. layer 12.5mm Gyproc Fireline board scrim tape joints and apply skim plaster finish. 
  
C Supply and fix 150mm x 19mm splayed softwood skirtings to length of wall upgrade. Mitre and scribe internal and external corner joints. 
  
D Include for installing timber cap to top of lining / balustrade detail with  50mm x 18mm timber. Timbers to protrude 20mm past plaster finish of wall.
  
  
 PLASTERING 
  
E Where walls have been removed back to main perimeter walls, were wall coverings are to be removed and were damaged ceilings have been removed within layout prepare areas ready to receive and apply 2 no. coats of cement sand render to walls.  First coat 1:1:9 mix, second coat 1:1:6 mix allowing each coat to dry prior to next being applied. 
  
F Apply 6mm skim finish in Gypsum Thistle multi finish over surface to a smooth, plumb and even finish feathered into adjoining areas to reduce cracking. 
  
G Allow for 5m2 of plaster repair works to main walls for the event existing areas of plaster are found to be debonded to walls etc. 
  
 ROOF INSULATION  
  
H Report any signs of past water ingress / damage through the roof structure / or water sources such as storage tanks etc to the contract administrator prior to undertaking works. 
  
J Inspect electrical wiring and hot and cold water pipework are in a state of good repair or arrange for Contract Administrator inspection prior to works commencing. Any large gaps running through the ceiling from the loft space are to be sealed using appropriate filler. 
  
L Supply and lay Knauf Earthwool Loft Roll 44 or equal insulation to suit existing joist widths. Lay 100mm depth between exposed ceiling joists and 170mm depth over ceiling joists at right angles to joists. All joints between insulation to be close butted. Ensure insulation is continuous and taken up the sides of all storage tanks. 
  
M Insulation to be laid in close proximity to eaves ventilation but ensure cross ventilation air path is maintained and not covered.  
  
N Ensure insulation is cut back at least 75mm around electrical junction boxes, any electrical cables 6mm-10mm should not be covered with insulation due to heating issues. Ensure cables are laid over the top of the insulation. Light fittings which penetrate the ceiling should have a minimum insulation free area of 75mm in all plains. 
  
P All hot and cold pipework were possible to be incorporated in the insulation layer to protect against freezing, where this is not possible fit lagging to exposed pipework. 
  
  
 Carried Forward 0.0
  
David Trowler Associates  Page 2/5
(1806 - September 2014)  
 Brought Forward 0.0
  
 NEW PARTITIONS 
  
A Construct new stud partition walls to form new toilet layout comprising 70mm Gypframe C metal studwork built to full height, to underside of ceiling.  Allow for anchor fixing head and sole plates and securely fixing to walls. Frame out to form door openings. 
  
B Infill with 50mm thick Isowool APR 1200 insulation. 
  
C Plate both sides of new stud partition walls using 1 no. layer 12.5mm Gyproc plasterboard,  scrim tape joints and apply skim plaster finish. 
  
 JOINERY 
  
D Supply and fix 150mm x 19mm splayed softwood skirtings to perimeter of all rooms. Mitre and scribe internal and external corner joints. 
  
E Construct timber framework to suit new raised height of Kitchen to window W1 and plate with plywood to create new upstand to worktop to be tiled. 
  
 Staircase Alterations 
  
E Supply and fix 2 no. 260mm wide x 18mm plywood sheets to each going and landing to staircase as per details on 1806/04 to ensure 190mm going is maintained after compartment floor alterations are complete. Install nosings as described elsewhere. 
 Goings - 260mm deep x 850mm wide. 
 Landings - 850mm x 850mm 
 Risers - 14 no. 190mm high 
  
 Handrail Modification 
  
F Refix existing set aside handrail complete with brackets and fixings. Handrail to fixed between 900mm - 1000mm from top of handrail to pitch line or landing. 
  
 KITCHEN REFIT 
  
G Refit set aside Kitchen to original layout comprising of the following units: 
  
 2 no. 1000mm Base units complete with plinth. 
 1 no. 3000mm long worktop. 
 1 no. stainless steel sink and taps. 
 1 no. 600 base unit complete with worktop and plinth. 
 1 no. cooker 
 1 no. 2000mm long worktop complete with support leg. 
  
H Reconnect waste pipework complete with 75mm deep seal bottle trap, connections for sink and all support brackets, bends, joints.  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 Carried Forward 0.0
  
David Trowler Associates  Page 2/6
(1806 - September 2014)  
 Brought Forward 0.0
  
 DOORS AND FRAMES 
  
A Door frames D6 & D7 : Supply and fix 2 no. 38mm thick treated softwood door linings for single door set with solid 12mm rebate.  Supply and fix 75mm splayed softwood architraves to both sides of new door frames.  All timbers to be primed on all sides prior to fixing. 
  
B Doors D1 - D3 : Supply and fit 44mm FDS30S plywood faced solid core door hung on 3 no. 100mm ball bearing hinges. Include for vision panel 200mm x 1440mm in georgian wired frosted glass for privacy. Include for intumescent and smoke seals. Doors to be rehung in existing frames. 
  
C Doors D4-D7 : Supply and fit 44mm plywood faced solid core doors hung on 3 no. 100mm ball bearing hinges.  Door D5 to be rehung in existing frame. 
  
 IRONMONGERY 
  
D D1-D4 Supply and fit the following ironmongery : 
  
 1 No. Dorma TS92B closer with silver cover. 
 1 No. pair  Laidlaw Centurion lever handles (LA02SS) 
 1 No. Laidlaw Centurion thumb turn. (LA18) 
 2 No. Laidlaw Centurion escutcheon (LA17SS). 
 1 No. Europrofile deadlock 
 2 No. 150mm deep SAA kick plates. 
 1 No. SAA Fire Door Keep Locked Sign 
 1 No. Floor Mounted Door Stop 
  
E D5, D6 & D7 Supply and fit the following ironmongery : 
  
 1 No. Dorma TS92B closer with silver cover. 
 1 No. Laidlaw Centurion pull handle(LA06SS). 
 1 No. Laidlaw Centurion push plate (LA23SS). 
 1 No. Laidlaw Centurion thumb turn. (LA18). 
 2 No. Laidlaw  Centurion escutcheon (LA17SS). 
 1 No. Europrofile deadlock. 
 2 No. 150mm deep SAA kick plates. 
 D6-D7 - 1 No. Toilet Signage. 
 1 No. Floor Mounted Door Stop 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 Carried Forward 0.0
  
David Trowler Associates  Page 2/7
(1806 - September 2014)  
 Brought Forward 0.0
  
 FLOORING - VINYL SAFETY 
  
A New Vinyl Safety Flooring to be laid in Kitchen, WC1, WC2 & WC Corridor, 
  
B Supply and lay new Polyflor Vogue Ultra vinyl sheet safety flooring laid in accordance with Code of Practice BS 8203 1996 and manufacturers recommendations, with neat hot-welded joints. Manufacturers adhesives to be used appropriate to location and use of vinyl. Supply and fix Gradus SI 150 50 2P set in skirtings to perimeter of each room. 
  
C Seal skirtings to walls and floors and ensure each joint is fully bonded. 
  
D Finish at junctions with floor finishes using Gradus TA16 edging trim. 
  
 FLOORING - CARPET TILES 
  
E New carpet to be laid in Office, Meeting Room, Store Ground & First Floor Hall area as indicated 1826/04. 
  
F Prepare surface ready to receive and apply new Gradus Predator 500mm x 500mm x 6.5mm tufted loop pile carpet tiles. Install with manufacturers approved adhesive and ensure all joints are seam sealed using manufacturers approved seam sealer. Colour to be confirmed. 
  
G Provide labour and all necessary equipment to lay tiles. Tiles to be laid symmetrically and centrally about each area from centre of room outwards. 
  
H Install Gradus AFT 14 Form top carpet trim between changes in floor finishes to adjoining areas.  Colours of trim to be confirmed upon selection of carpet. 
  
J Form neat joint with carpet at door openings and finish with Gradus ACS52 cover strip. 
  
K Provide and install Gradus nosing with coloured inserts to staircase.  Gradus G65 with steel interior coloured LRV 26.94 infill.  Final colours to be approved. 
  
L To front and last steps provide a contrasting colour insert to Gradus G65 nosing.  Final colour to be agreed. 
  
 FLOORING - BARRIER MATTING 
  
M Prepare floor areas ready to receive finishes 
  
N Provide and lay Burmatex Grimebuster 50 Entrance Matting Tile to  Entrance Lobby and Ground Floor staircase lobby, as indicated on drawing. Matting bonded using an approved adhesive.   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 Carried Forward 0.0
  
David Trowler Associates  Page 2/8
(1806 - September 2014)  
 Brought Forward 0.0
  
 SANITARYWARE 
  
 Supply and fit the following sanitaryware: 
  
A 2 no. Twyfords white vitreous china Option HO close-coupled wash down WC (OT2361WH) complete with cistern, white seat unit and chrome fittings.  
  
B 2 no. Twyfords white vitreous china Parmis 500 wash-hand basin complete with chrome plated bottle traps, captive waste, fixing brackets and 2 no. pillar taps (Ref:  LG5200CP).  Ensure taps are secured with an anti slip / friction washer and beaded in silicone as per revised manufacturers recommendations to prevent loosening. 
  
 WALL TILING - TOILETS 
  
C Tile above wash hand basins using H & R Johnson plain colour range gloss-finished tiles comprising 150mm x 150mm x 6.5mm thick modular tiles fixed using BAL Blue Star adhesive, used in accordance with manufacturers recommendations.  Include for proprietary white PVCu stop beads. 
 Colour : White 
  
 Locations: 
 Above Wash basins = 600mm x 300mm high 
  
D Grout tiles throughout using BAL Microflex coloured wall grout, applied in accordance with manufacturers instructions. Colour: White. 
  
E Tile walls to areas in Kitchen above worktop using 2 no. rows of 250mm x 330mm x 6.5mm thick coloured ceramic wall tiles.  Tiles fixed using BAL Blue Star adhesive, used in accordance with manufacturers recommendations.  Include for proprietary white PVCu stop beads. 
 Colour : TBC 
  
 Locations: 
 Above Kitchen Units = 3000mm x 660mm  
 Above Kitchen Units = 1725mm x 660mm  
 Above Kitchen Units = 1430mm x 660mm  
  
F Grout tiles throughout using BAL Microflex coloured wall grout, applied in accordance with manufacturers instructions. Colour: White. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 Carried Forward 0.0
  
David Trowler Associates  Page 2/9
(1806 - September 2014)  
 Brought Forward 0.0
  
 ABOVE GROUND DRAINAGE 
  
A All new drainage/waste pipework for all new sanitaryware to be designed and installed in accordance with the principles outlined in BRE 249.  Sanitary Pipework: Part 2 - Design of Pipework and other relevant manufacturers recommendations. 
  
B Supply and fit new waste pipework to WCs and, WHB fittings comprising MuPVC (modified unplasticised polyvinyl chloride). Colour: White. Include for the following: 
  
 (1)   76mm 'P' or 'S' trap with screw fittings 
 (2)   50mm common branch to w.c fittings in line or where connected to other fittings. 
 (3)   100mm connection to waste outlets. 
 (4)   Access at all bends to comprise screw fittings. 
 (5)   Minimum 75mm radius to bends. 
 (6)   Branch gradients to be set at 1' to 5' (18 to 90mm/m) 
 (7)   All brackets, fittings etc. 
  
C All branch pipework after traps to have solvent welded joints. 
  
D Install new 100mm above ground drainage pipework to WC's and route and connect to existing SVP externally as indicated on drawings.  
  
E Waste pipes from wash hand basins to 100mm above ground drainage pipework.  Clip pipe to wall with saddle clips at maximum 600mm centres.  Colour cap screw heads. 
  
F Supply and fit Pendock Profile MX plywood casing system - type A, box in exposed drainage pipework . Boxing in to be 200mm x 200mm. Include for constructing timber softwood frame. 
  
 FITTINGS 
  
G Supply and fix  2 no. 6mm thick rectangular, silver-backed glass mirrors with polished bevelled edges, fixed using chrome-plated domed headed fixings and adhesive to backgrounds. Contractor to contact Contract Administrator regarding exact locations for mirrors to be fitted. 
  
H Locations: 
 Size : 400mm x 600mm - Above Wash hand basins. 
  
J Supply and fit 2 no. SAA coat hooks in Toilets. Locations to be agreed with Contract Administrator. 
  
K Install client supplied fittings comprising of soap dispensers, towel holders, toilet roll dispensers in both toilets.  Locations agreed with Contract Administrator. 
  
 WINDOW BLINDS (W1-W9) 
  
L Supply and fit vertical fabric adjustable blinds, Astralux 1000, or equal to windows. Include for headrail, self aligning louvres with cord operation. Colour:  Century fabric (white) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 Carried Forward 0.0
  
David Trowler Associates  Page 2/10
(1806 - September 2014)  
 Brought Forward 0.0
  
 DECORATION 
  
 Extent of Works 
  
A Prepare and decorate all new and previously decorated surfaces to the following rooms including walls, ceilings, window and door frames, doors, skirtings, radiators, pipework etc. 
  
 Ground Floor / First Floor Staircase & Hallway. 
 Kitchen 
 Office 
 Meeting Room 
 Store 
 WC1 & WC2 
  
 Ceilings and Walls 
  
B Ensure surfaces are clear and free from contaminants.    
  
C Fill all cracks, holes or other surface defects, after cleaning out, using a flexible filler.  Rub down smooth when dry. 
  
D Apply one coat primer sealer to new plasterboard and plastered areas. 
  
E Decorate walls with two coats eggshell paint in colour to be agreed. 
  
 Woodwork 
  
F Knot stop and prime all new timber and apply one coat wood primer to all sides. 
  
G Decorate with one coat undercoat and two coats acrylic / or oil -based gloss coat.  
  
H Ensure all edges of doors and tops of architraves are painted. 
  
 Metalwork 
  
J Wash down surface and remove rust, burrs from works carried out. 
  
K Prime bare metal or new metalwork with one coat high build zinc phosphate primer within in 2 hours of preparation. 
  
L Decorate with two coats high build allkyd paint. 
  
M Pipework to be decorated to match background using full gloss. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 To Collection 0.0
  
David Trowler Associates  Page 2/11
(1806 - September 2014)  
