Crewe Cemetery Lodge - Change of Use Alterations  Schedule
  
Section 1 : General  
  
Item Description £       p
  
  
 SITE SETUP & ACCESS 
  
A The Contractor will provide his own welfare facilities throughout the duration of the works and shall be located within a fenced compound final location to be agreed. Welfare facilities shall include toilets, office and welfare accommodation. Temporary power and water supplies may be obtained free of charge from the existing building. 
  
B The site compound shall be enclosed with block and mesh fencing, minimum 1800mm high and provided with pedestrian access gates at entry/exit points.  
  
C The works will be phased in such a way as to minimise disturbance to the building users. 
  
D The Contractor will be restricted to the actual areas of working and access routes agreed in advance with the Employer's Representative. 
  
E All deliveries must be made when the Contractor is on site to accept them.  No items will be accepted by the Employer's staff if the Contractor is absent.  All arrangements must be made in advance. 
  
F Deliveries are not to interfere with the normal operation of the cemetery buildings and reduce congestion. 
  
G On site parking is limited and the Contractor must ensure that access to site parking is not obstructed. 
  
H Skips shall be located away from any building and be fully enclosed, and removed periodically. 
  
 WORKING ARRANGEMENTS / SUPERVISION 
  
J The Contractor shall appoint a Site Supervisor who shall be responsible for liaising with the Employer’s Representative on a daily basis.  The Site Supervisor shall not be changed without prior consent. 
  
K The Contractor will be restricted to the actual areas of working and access routes agreed in advance with the Employer. 
  
L During initial phase of works when strip out / alteration works are being carried out allow for protecting flooring to the area of works and access route with temporary protective sheeting. 
  
N The external entrance door shall be used to access the areas of working. Contractor to liaise with client representative on a daily basis to access the building and arrange appropriate protocol regarding maintain security etc.  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 Carried Forward 0.0
  
David Trowler Associates  Page 1/1
(1806 - September 2014)  
 Brought Forward 0.0
  
 DISPOSAL 
  
A All items to be stripped out, hacked off, removed etc. shall be disposed off site unless it is stated to be retained for re-use. 
  
B All rubbish/debris arising from works, shall be bagged, sealed and removed from site at regular intervals.  No accumulation of rubbish will be permitted. 
  
 PROTECTION 
  
C Protect all floor and ground finishes to be retained, with suitable proprietary protective sheeting, where required during the works and or delivery of materials etc. 
  
D Protect all fixtures and fittings with dust sheets and clean down upon completion to remove all loose dust and debris. Erect dust screens over openings leading into adjoining areas and fully seal against dust ingress. 
  
 UPON COMPLETION 
  
E Remove all temporary accommodation etc. and reinstate the site as required. 
  
F Clean down all areas and leave free of markings, dust debris and damage.  If this item is not fully complied with, the Contract Administrator will instruct an industrial cleaner to carry out the necessary works and the cost, together with any costs incurred by the Employer, will be omitted from any payments due to the Contractor. 
  
 STATUTORY NOTIFICATION 
  
G Allow for notifying the Local Authority Building Control prior to works commencing and at each appropriate stage of the works to allow for inspection of the same and the acquisition of the completion certificate. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 Carried Forward 0.0
  
David Trowler Associates  Page 1/2
(1806 - September 2014)  
 Brought Forward 0.0
  
 ASBESTOS 
  
A A management  asbestos survey and report of the building was undertaken in September 2014 and a copy of the report is included in the Pre-construction Information.  
  
B A Refurbishment and Demolition Survey Report will be provided prior to the work commencing on site. 
  
C The removal works shall be undertaken by a specialist licensed contractor, who shall be responsible for notification of the works and preparing the Plan of Work and Method Statement.   
  
D Include for AEC Ltd attendance to undertake air clearance tests before and after alteration works. Works to be undertaken with appropriate RPE, PPE and allow for the use of shadow vacuum in semi-controlled conditions. 
  
E Provide and permit access to AEC Limited representatives during the course of the asbestos removal works. 
  
F Remove existing asbestos containing materials to the following work areas:  
  
G Bathroom Heating Cupboard - Grey floor tiles and debris to floor - Chysotile Asbestos.  
  
H Upon completion all associated elements of structure shall be cleaned using a suitable dustless method, for example, sealed vacuum cleaner fitted with a high efficiency filter to extract dust/particles etc. 
  
J Waste to be disposed of in accordance with the Control of Pollution Act (Special Waste) Regulations and other relevant Regulations and Codes of Practice. 
  
 CONTINGENCY 
  
M Allow the Contingency Sum of £2,000.00 (Two Thousand Pounds) to be expended at the direction of the Contract Administrator in the event of unforeseen works.  The sum will be deducted from the contract sum if not required. 
  
N Allow for profit and overheads. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 To Collection 0.0
  
David Trowler Associates  Page 1/3
(1806 - September 2014)  
