Crewe Cemetery Lodge - Change of Use Alterations  Schedule
  
Section 4 : External Maintenance  
  
Item Description £       p
  
 REPOINTING OF CRACKS 
  
A Rake out and repoint approximate 1m2  section to top corner of parapet wall on front elevation. Repoint in hydraulic lime mortar 1 part lime putty to 3 parts washed, well graded, sharp sand or other equal similar and approved to match sample analysed. 
  
B Cut out and remove existing mortar to a depth of at least twice the thickness of the joint minimum 25mm to a square backing exposing the masonry bricks to the bottom, top and both sides of the cut. 
  
C Use a quirk, plugging chisel, handsaw or other devise specially devised for the purpose.  DO NOT use grinders or mechanical saws or other mechanical tools. 
  
D Ensure that the line of cutting out does not depart from the line of the joint with the masonry works. 
  
E Ensure that the width of the cut out does not exceed the original joint thickness. 
  
F Flush out joints with clean water to remove all debris and dust. 
  
G Brush out debris in joints and dampen but do not over wet immediately prior to pointing. 
  
H Pack mortar into joints using a pointing iron of suitable width to fit joint. 
  
J Strike off and finish joints to the profile agreed with the Contract Administrator. 
  
K Rake out mortar joints in patch areas to a depth of 20mm.  Clean and dampen and re-point in 1:1:6 cement:lime:sand mortar finished with a neat struck weathered joint. 
  
 WINDOW REPAIRS (W1-W8) 
  
L Clean down existing window frame to remove all loose, failing, deteriorated or suspect paint work. Remove grey and denatured surfaces by rubbing down with abrasive paper and mechanical sander and round all sharp edges. Do not leave isolated areas of paint. 
  
M Completely strip the sills, bottom rails and approximately 600mm up the side rails to a firm feathered edge.  Thoroughly sand all remaining areas. 
  
N Remove all organic growth and treat affected areas with Fungicidal Wash. Thoroughly rinse afterwards with water to neutralise. 
  
P All surfaces to be cleaned off to remove all oil, grease or other surface contamination. 
  
Q Carefully prise lower opening light to enable opening. 
  
R Allow the provisional sum of £250.00 (Two Hundred and Fifty Pounds) for additional repairs to woodwork. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 To Collection 0.0
  
David Trowler Associates  Page 4/1
(1806 - September 2014)  
